1 C (85g) plain cake flour, sifted
1 1/2 C (298g) sugar, divided in half an sifted
12 large egg whites at room temperature
1 tsp cream of tartar
1/2 tsp salt
1 1/2 tsp vanilla extract
1 1/2 tsp juice from 1 lemon
1/2 tsp almond extract

Adjust oven rack to lower-middle position and pre-heat the oven to
325F.

Whisk the flour and 3/4 C (149g) of the sugar in a small bowl. Place
the remaining sugar in another small bowl by the mixer.

Beat the egg whites in the bowl of a stand mixer at low speed until
just broken up and starting to froth. Add cream of tartar and salt and
increase speed to medium until whites form soft, billowy mounds. With
mixer still at medium, beat in the remaining 3/4C sugar, 1 tsp at a
time, until all sugar is added and the whites form shiny, soft
peaks. Add the vanilla, lemon juice, and almond extract and beat until
just blended.

Place the bowl a piece of wax or parchment paper. Sift the flour and
sugar mixture into the mixing bowl over the whites, about 3 Tbsp at a
time, and gently fold it in with a silicone spatula. Any flour and
sugar that miss the bowl will land on the parchment paper and should
be re-sifted into the bowl and folded in.

Gently scrape the batter into an ungreased 9 inch tube pan with a
removable bottom. Smooth the top with the spatula, and give the pan a
couple of raps on the counter to release any large air bubbles.

Bake until the cake is golden brown and the top springs back when
pressed firmly, 50 to 60 minutes.

If the cake pan has prongs around the rim, invert the pan onto
them. If it does not, invert it onto the neck of a bottle or
funnel. Let cool completely, 2 - 3 hours.

To unmold, run a knife around the edge of the pan, being careful not
to separate the golden crust from the cake Slide the cake out of the
pan and cut the same way around the removable bottom to release. Place
the cake bottom-side up on a platter, and cut slices by sawing gently
with a long serrated knife. Serve the cake the day it is made.

From The New Best Recipe Revised Edition, 2004

