Bao:
Makes 10
https://thewoksoflife.com/steamed-bbq-pork-buns-char-siu-bao/

1 tsp active dry yeast
3/4 C warm water
2 C all-purpose flour
1 C cornstarch
5 Tbsp sugar
1/4 cup neutral oil
2 1/2 tspbaking powder (reserved)

In the bowl of an electric mixer fitted with a dough hook attachment
(you can also just use a regular mixing bowl and knead by hand),
dissolve the yeast in the warm water. Sift together the flour and
cornstarch, and add it to the yeast mixture along with the sugar and
oil. Turn on the mixer to the lowest setting and let it go until a
smooth dough ball is formed. Cover with a damp cloth and let it rest
for 2 hours. (I haven't forgotten about the baking powder. You'll add
that later!)

After your dough has rested for 2 hours, add the baking powder to the
dough and turn the mixer on to the lowest setting. At this point, if
the dough looks dry or you're having trouble incorporating the baking
powder, add 1-2 tspwater. Gently knead the dough until it
becomes smooth again. Cover with a damp cloth and let it rest for
another 15 minutes. In the meantime, get a large piece of parchment
paper and cut it into ten 4x4 inch squares. Prepare your steamer by
bringing the water to a boil.

Now we are ready to assemble the buns: roll the dough into a long tube
and divide it into 10 equal pieces. Press each piece of dough into a
disc about 4 1/2 inches in diameter (it should be thicker in the
center and thinner around the edges). Add some filling and pleat the
buns until they're closed on top.

Place each bun on a parchment paper square, and steam. I steamed the
buns in two separate batches using a bamboo steamer (be sure the
boiling water does not touch the buns during steaming process). Once
the water boils, place the buns in the steamer and steam each batch
for 12 minutes over high heat.

---

BBQ Pork Filling:
Makes enough for 10 buns
https://thewoksoflife.com/steamed-bbq-pork-buns-char-siu-bao/

1 Tbsp oil
1/3 C shallots or red onion (finely chopped)
1 Tbsp sugar
1 Tbsp light soy sauce
1 1/2 Tbsp oyster sauce
2 tsp sesame oil
2 tsp dark soy sauce
1/2 C chicken stock
2 Tbsp all purpose flour
1 1/2 C diced Chinese roast pork (you can buy it ready-made, or see
our Chinese BBQ Pork recipe, or, frankly, just dice about 3/4 lbs of
pork and stir-fry it in oil)

Heat the oil in a wok over medium high heat. Add the onion or shallot
and stir-fry for a minute. Turn heat down to medium-low, and add the
sugar, soy sauce, oyster sauce, sesame oil, and dark soy. Stir and
cook until the mixture starts to bubble up. Add the chicken stock and
flour, cooking for a couple minutes until thickened. Remove from the
heat and stir in the roast pork. Set aside to cool. If you make the
filling ahead of time, cover and refrigerate to prevent it from drying
out.

---

Custard:
Makes enough for 24 buns
https://www.jessicagavin.com/chinese-steamed-custard-bun-recipe/

1 1/2 C (360 ml) whole milk
1/2 C (120 ml) heavy cream
1/2 C (100 g) granulated sugar, divided in half
5 large egg yolks
1/4 C (38 g) cornstarch
1/4 C (57 g) unsalted butter, cut into 4 pieces
1 1/2 tsp (8 ml) pure vanilla extract

Add the milk and cream in a medium-size saucepan. Bring to a simmer
over medium heat. Whisk in 1⁄4 cup sugar until dissolved and then turn
off the heat.

In a medium-size bowl, whisk together the egg yolks and 1/4 C sugar
until smooth.

Add the cornstarch to the egg mixture and whisk until incorporated.

Remove the simmering milk mixture from the heat. Measure 1/4 C of it,
then gradually add it to the egg mixture, whisking constantly to
temper. Gradually add the tempered egg mixture to the remaining milk
mixture, whisking constantly.

Place the saucepan on the stove, heat over medium-high heat. Whisk
constantly until the mixture slightly thickens, 3 minutes. Turn off
the heat and remove the saucepan from the stove.

Whisk in the cold butter and vanilla until incorporated. Cover with
plastic wrap and refrigerate until chilled and set, at least 2
hours. The custard can be made a day in advance.
