2 1/4 cups (284g) All-Purpose Flour, plus additional for dusting
1 teaspoon salt
1 tablespoon baking powder
1/4 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 cup sour cream
1 1/2 teaspoons vinegar
1/2 cup - 1 1/2 teaspoons whole milk
  (add the vinegar to a measuring cup, then fill it up to 1/2 cup with whole milk)
8 tbsp cold unsalted butter
2 tbsp melted butter for brushing

Preheat oven to 425°F with rack in the middle position. 

Whisk together milk, vinegar, and sour cream in a small mixing bowl.

In the bowl of a food processor, combine flour, baking powder, baking soda, and
salt and process until blended, about 2 seconds. Scatter cold butter evenly
over flour and pulse until the mixture resembles coarse meal and the largest butter
pieces are about 1/4-inch at their widest, about 12 times. Transfer to a large bowl. 

Add the buttermilk mixture to the flour mixture and, using a silicone spatula,
fold until wet and dry ingredients are combined. At this point, the dough does not
need to be cohesive.

Transfer the dough to a floured work surface and knead until it just comes together,
adding extra flour as necessary. 

With a floured rolling pin, roll the dough into a 12" by 8" rectangle. Using a bench scraper,
fold the right third of the dough over the center, then fold the left third over so
you end up with a 12" by 4" rectangle. Fold the top third down over the center,
then fold the bottom third up so the whole thing is reduced to a 4" square. Press
the square down and roll it out again into a 12" by 8" rectangle. Repeat the folding
process once more.

Roll the dough again into a 10" by 6" rectangle (about 1" thick). Using a floured
biscuit cutter, cut eight 2 1/2" hexagons (or rounds) out of the dough. Flip them over when
they come out of the mold, and transfer the rounds to a parchment-lined baking sheet, spacing
them about 1" apart. Form the dough scraps into a ball and knead gently 2 or 3 times, until
smooth. Roll the dough out until it’s large enough to cut out 4 more 2 1/2" rounds, and
transfer to the baking sheet. 

Brush the tops of the biscuits with the melted butter and bake until golden brown and well risen,
about 13 minutes. Allow to cool for 5 minutes and serve. 


Based on https://www.seriouseats.com/the-food-lab-buttermilk-biscuits-recipe from serious eats.
