550 g all-purpose flour, plus more for dusting
300 g room-temperature water
50 g 95F water
11 g salt
2.5 g active dry yeast

Place the yeast in the warm water and leave until it is foamy.

Place all ingredients in mixer, and mix on low with a dough hook until
a dough forms. Cover the bowl with a dishtowel or plastic wrap, and
let rest for fifteen minutes.

Remove the bowl cover, and mix on medium-high until the dough feels
elastic and bounces partway back when indented with your thumb, about
3-5 minutes.

Lightly oil a bowl. With oiled hands, gently transfer the dough,
taking taking care not to tear its surface. Cover, and let rise at
room temperature for 30 minutes.

Uncover dough and fold it in half, being careful not to compress it
too much. Re-cover with plastic wrap and let stand until dough has
increased in volume by half, about 1 hour 45 minutes longer.

Lightly dust a work surface with flour. Shape the dough into a round,
folding the dough under itself to create a smooth surface with a seam
on the bottom. Let dough rest on the work surface, seam-side down, for
5 minutes. The dough should now be reasonably dry on the outside.

Clean the bowl of oil, dry it, and place the dough in the bowl,
seam-side up. Allow the dough to rise until it has nearly doubled in
size, about 1 hour, 30 minutes.

Meanwhile, place an open dutch oven on the oven's bottom rack and
preheat the oven to 500F.

Open the oven and move the hot dutch oven to the stovetop. Gently turn
the the loaf out, seam-side down, into the dutch oven. Score the top
with a sharp knife to make two parallel cuts roughly 3 inches
apart. Spray the top of the loaf with water (or sprinkle).

Cover and bake for fifteen minutes. 

Lower oven temperature to 450F and bake for fifteen more minutes.

Uncover and bake until crust is dark brown, about five minutes.

Transfer to a wire rack and let cool for an hour before cutting.

Inspired by:

https://www.seriouseats.com/recipes/2014/08/simple-crusty-white-bread-recipe.html
