Butter chicken recipe from https://cafedelites.com/butter-chicken/#recipe

Marinade:
28 oz boneless and skinless chicken thighs or breasts cut into bite-sized pieces
1/2 cup plain yogurt
1 1/2 tablespoons garlic minced
1 tablespoon ginger minced, or finely grated
2 teaspoons garam masala
1 teaspoon turmeric
1 teaspoon ground cumin
1 teaspoon red chili powder
1 teaspoon salt

Sauce:
2 tablespoons olive oil
2 tablespoons butter
1 large onion sliced or chopped
1 1/2 tablespoons garlic minced
1 tablespoon ginger minced or finely grated
1 1/2 teaspoons ground cumin
1 1/2 teaspoons garam masala
1 teaspoon ground coriander
14 oz crushed tomatoes
2 teaspoon red chili powder, adjust to taste preference
1 1/2 teaspoons salt or to taste
1 cup heavy cream
1 tablespoon sugar
1/2 teaspoon kasoori methi or dried fenugreek leaves

For the ingredients in the sauce, they will all be blended before eaten. As a result, it's not
as necessary to get the onion and other ingredients cut as small compared to if they were eaten
straight.


Combine chicken with ingredients from the marinade in a 2 gal. ziploc bag, and massage until 
all ingredients are incorporated and evenly coat the chicken. Marinate for at least 30 minutes,
but preferably 6 hours or overnight.

Heat oil in a large skillet or pot over medium-high heat. When sizzling, add chicken pieces in
small batches. The pieces should not crowd each other in the pan, at most barely touching. Fry
until browned for only 3 minutes on each side, and set aside.

Add garlic and ginger and sauté for 1 minute until fragrant, then add ground coriander, cumin,
and garam masala. Let cook for about 20 seconds until fragrant, while stirring occasionally.

Add crushed tomatoes, chili powder and salt. Let simmer for about 10-15 minutes, stirring
occasionally until sauce thickens and becomes a deep brown red colour.

Remove from heat and blend sauce with an immersion blender. You may need to add a couple
tablespoons of water to help it blend (up to 1/4 cup).

Pour the puréed sauce back into the pan. Stir the cream, sugar and crushed kasoori methi
(or fenugreek leaves) through the sauce. Add the chicken with juices back into the pan and cook
for an additional 8-10 minutes until chicken is cooked through and the sauce is thick and bubbling.

Garnish with chopped cilantro if you feel fancy, and serve with rice or naan.
