Converted to my style:

Cake:
        1 1/2C vegetable oil
        2 C sugar
        4 eggs
        300g all-purpose flour
        2 tsp baking soda
        2 tsp cinnamon
        3 C (150g?) grated carrots

Icing:
        8 oz cream cheese
        1 stick butter. If unsalted, add 1/4 tsp salt
        16 oz (454g) of powdered sugar
        2 tsp vanilla


Preheat oven to 350F. Take the cream cheese and butter out of the
refrigerator and set on the counter to raise to room temperature.

Place oil, sugar, and eggs into the bowl of a mixer, mix on medium
until the eggs are completely beaten. Add to this the flour, soda, and
cinnamon. Mix on low to just combine. Add carrots and mix for just a
few seconds to combine.

Bake in two 8 inch greased cake pans for 2 to 2 1/2 hours.

Remove from oven and allow to cool completely before removing from
pans. Once cool, transfer to cake plate and ice.

While the cake is cooling, to make the frosting:

In the bowl of a mixer with a paddle attachment, beat the butter and
cream cheese on medium high until smooth and creamy. Add the
confectioner's sugar, vanilla, and salt (if needed). Beat on low speed
for 30 seconds, then switch to medium high and beat for two minutes.



---

Original from my brother Nathan:

My brother Brett always had this carrot cake on his birthday. When I
found the recipe card Brett had actually written his name on it,
clearly at a very young age. Personally I would be happy with just the
cream cheese icing and a spoon.

INGREDIENTS
Cake
* 1 1/2 cup vegetable oil
* 2 cups sugar
* 4 eggs
* 2 1/2 cups flour
* 2 teaspoons baking soda
* 2 teaspoons cinnamon
* 3 cups grated carrots
Icing
* 8oz cream cheese
* 1 stick butter
* 1 box powdered sugar
* 2 teaspoons vanilla

DIRECTIONS
Cake
* Preheat oven to 350 degrees.
* Mix oil, sugar, and eggs in a large mixing bowl. In another bowl mix
flour, soda, and cinnamon. Combine mixtures in the larger bowl and add
carrots.
* Bake in two 8 inch buttered cake pans for 2 to 2.5 hours.
* Remove from oven and allow to cool to room temperature before
removing from pans. Once cool transfer to cake plate and ice.

Icing
* About 45 minutes before icing the cake set the cream cheese and
butter out at room temperature. Once they are soft, mix all
ingredients in a bowl. Keep at room temperature until ready to use,
but don’t let sit out more than an hour.
