250g dried pasta of your choice
6 strips of thick-sliced bacon, cut into 1/4" lardons
225g (8 oz) sliced crimini mushrooms
2 cloves garlic, minced
80 ml (1/3C) chicken broth or dry white wine
1/2 tsp Italian seasoning
1/2 tsp red pepper flakes
1 tsp lemon juice
1 tsp flour
1/2 tsp Dijon mustard
1C heavy cream
Salt & pepper to taste

Optionally, for serving: freshly grated Parmesan cheese, and chopped
fresh parsley or oregano.

In a pot or deep-walled skillet, bring just enough salted water to
cover the pasta by one inch to a gentle simmer as you begin the next
steps. Once it begins to simmer, cover the pot and keep it near
boiling.

Fry the bacon in a skillet until crispy over medium heat. With a
slotted spoon, transfer to a paper-towel covered plate.

Add the mushrooms to the bacon fat in the skillet, and cook them,
stirring occassionally, until they release their moisture and then
become a nice golden brown. Lastly, add the garlic to the pan and cook
until fragrant, about 30 seconds. Then, remove the mushrooms and
whatever garlic it's easy to remove from the pan.

Add the broth or wine, Italian seasoning, lemon juice, flour, and
Dijon mustard to the pan. Stir to combine, and cook for 60 seconds so
the flour will not taste raw.

Bring the water to a full boil now, and add in the pasta. Cook for
two minutes less than the directions on the pasta for al dente. While
that's cooking, begin the next step.

Add cream to the pan, raise it to a gentle simmer, and cook for two minutes.
Then, add the mushrooms and bacon back into the skillet. Finally,
remove the pasta from the water with tongs, and add it to the sauce
along with 2 Tbsp of the pasta water.

Cook them together for another few minutes until the sauce is
thickened and the pasta finishes cooking. If the sauce gets to thick,
simply add more pasta water.

Finally, top with freshly-grated Parmesan and top with suggested
herbs, and salt if needed. Serve immediately.


Inspired by: https://www.saltandlavender.com/bacon-mushroom-pasta/
