14 oz (24 large) dried dates with pits
6 oz blue cheese, or goat cheese (milder flavor; see cheese note, below)
1/4 lbs thinly sliced prosciutto (8 - 10 large slices)
DOP Balsamic Vinegar or Balsamic Reduction (see below)

Preheat an oven to 400F. Prepare a baking sheet with a piece of
parchment paper.

It is best to do this "assembly line" style where you perform each
step on all the dates, then move to the next step.

With a paring knife, slit open each date and remove the pit, keeping
the date intact.

Next, fill the cavity from the pit in each date with cheese.

Finally, for each proscuitto slice, cut it into three strips
length-wise (this will require a very sharp knife and even then may
benefit from a sawing motion when cutting). Remove one strip of
proscuitto and wrap the date in it, placing it on the baking sheet
such that the proscuitto seam is pointed down.

Bake until the proscuitto is crisp and the cheese begins to melt,
about 8 minutes.

After removing from the oven, drizzle balsamic vinegar over each
date. Allow to cool for five minutes, and then serve.

Cheese Note:
Goat cheese will be very mild, and is a good choice for diners who
don't appreciate strong cheese flavors. A really powerful blue cheese
will give this more of a kick and is a great choice for cheese-lovers.

Balsamic Vinegar Note:
You really want some sweetness from the balsamic vinegar. Ideally this
is just DOP Balsamic Vinegar, but that is aged for very long periods
of time and it's very expensive (on the order of $100 for the cheap
stuff as of 2022, and you can easily spend $150 for 100ml). A cheaper
alternative is a Balsamic Reduction:

2 C good quality supermarket balsamic vinegar
1/2 C brown sugar.

Put both in a pot and heat together. Bring to a gentle boil, then
reduce heat to medium-low and let simmer, stirring occasionally,
until vinegar thickens and is reduce to about 1/2 C (about 10
minutes). It should be thick enough to coat the back of a spoon.

Remove from heat and allow to cool completely.

Basic inspiration from:
https://www.foodnetwork.com/recipes/ina-garten/warm-dates-with-blue-cheese-and-prosciutto-7971086
