











 


          Garlicky Beef Tenderloin With Orange Horseradish Sauce
        





Melissa Clark


Yield
8 to 10 servings

Time


 


 

 
Share on Pinterest


Email


 
 

 



                    Andrew Scrivani for The New York Times
                  


The allure of beef tenderloin pulls hard. When properly cooked until the surface is seared to a glistening mahogany and the center is tender and running with beefy juices, it is one of the most regal, festive and delectable things a cook can serve. As a finishing touch, serve the meat with a pungent, creamy horseradish sauce that is shockingly easy to prepare.

Featured in: 
A Good Appetite: A Tenderloin That’s Well Worth The Tending
 

 


  



269 ratings








                
              
 

Advertisement


Advertisement

 

Ingredients


 

(4-pound) 
beef tenderloin
 

 
1
tablespoon 
kosher salt
 

 
1
teaspoon 
black pepper
 

 
1
teaspoon 
chopped fresh rosemary
 

 
1
fat 
garlic
 

 
2
tablespoons extra-virgin olive oil
 

 
2
cups crème fraîche
 

 
¼
cup 
white horseradish
 

 

Grated zest of half an 
orange
 


 




Nutritional Information

 


 
Nutritional analysis per serving (8 servings)

709
55 grams
23 grams
4 grams
0 grams
46 grams
222 milligrams
887 milligrams
 

Note:

                              The information shown is Edamam’s estimate based on available ingredients and preparation. It should not be considered a substitute for a professional nutritionist’s advice.
                            

Powered by 
Edamam
 
 

Preparation


Step 

Step 

Step 

Step 

Step 

  


Cooking Notes








        
      



500

 

Who can see this note?






          
          
        
 



 


All
32


Helpful
13


Private
0
 








Rosanne
1 year ago
Can you make in a dutch oven?  Do you cover the meat when you put it in the oven?  Sounds amazing!





30





Betsy
1 year ago
I've made this twice now for Christmas dinner.  It's great to have an easy but festive recipe that allows you to spend the day celebrating with family rather than stuck in the kitchen.  Didn't  make any changes to the recipe as is; we all thought the balance of horseradish and orange zest was just right.





25





Christine
11 months ago
I adored this recipe, and it was wonderful even though I made a few mistakes (not letting the meat come completely to room temperature and not having creme fraiche).  However, the smoke coming out of the oven caused the smoke detectors to go nuts.  I used a cast iron skillet.  Was that the problem?





17





mac
1 week ago
I've cooked the Christmas filet this way for years, but with a few








15





Christine
1 year ago
Sensational!








15





C. Alexander
1 year ago
This is so easy and elegant. I made it for a special holiday dinner. The orange zest gives the horseradish sauce a distinct but subtle flavor, delicious. Rave reviews and second helpings from all the guests.





12





Claude
1 year ago
This is one of the easiest recipes I have made, the horseradish sauce was out of this world. The subtlety of the orange zest really balances well with the zing of the horseradish. Searing the meat allowed me to try my new large All-Clad pan, worked great. :0) I will make this again for sure.





8





Natalie R.
11 months ago
Lovely flavourful crust, and a tender, pink interior. Makes a beautiful beef tenderloin, with very little fuss. I haven't even made the sauce for it, the meat doesn't need anything additional though I'm sure it's great with it too. Just make sure you watch the temperature, and check just before 10 min. We have gone a bit over 120 just past the 10 min mark, though it was still delicious. And make sure you have good ventilation, it makes a lot of smoke!





7





Bicka
11 months ago
This was easy and incredibly tasty!  Had a smaller roast and it took longer than the time in the recipe but having a good thermometer made it easy to catch at just the right moment.  Made the sauce with sour cream instead of creme fraiche and it was great and the orange added great flavor especially since I served honey orange glaze carrots as a side dish





7





Mark Hunter
5 days ago
Oh! Do not cover. For a tender roast like this, you want to use dry heat all the way through until it's time to rest. So use a skillet and do not cover in the oven. Conversely, when you cook a chuck roast wch is a tough but tasty piece of meat, you can put some liquid in the pot and cover it. Cooking it like that will break down the connective tissues and tenderize it. This is the difference between an oven roast (tenderloin) and a pot roast (chuck).



6





Brandy
8 months ago
I used the method to prepare a 19 oz. tenderloin. Put a little water in the cast iron skillet that I used to sear it in before placing it in the oven to prevent smoking. It was perfect med-rare in 20 minutes.





5





Lorraine
11 months ago
Very good,very easy and the tenderloin came out picture perfect! I seared my roast on our grill outdoors, because of the unseasonably warm weather.





4





Rob
11 months ago
I used just one cup of crème fraiche and 1/4 cup of prepared horseradish. Result was good and tangy and my extended family loved it. Overall this is a simple and elegant recipe for a holiday meal.



3

Like this recipe?


 


 

 
Share on Pinterest


Email


 
 

