
Modernist:


265g water 11g sodium citrate 285g shredded cheese


240g dry pasta


Whisk the sodium citrate into the water, and bring to a simmer. Add
cheese a handful at a time, blending with an immersion blender until
smooth. Let simmer for five minutes.



http://modernistcuisine.com/recipes/silky-smooth-macaroni-and-cheese/


Favorite: 214 g Cheddar 71 g Gruyere


----


20121226 - this is way too much for four people (especially two of them
picky). Halve it next year, maybe only make a third.


32 oz Macaroni 1 1/2 lbs (24 oz) grated cheddar 8 oz grated jack cheese
16 oz sour cream 12 cloves garlic 2 pieces of bread, toasted, buttered
and crumbed


Begin to cook the macroni, and then continue on the other tasks.  If
it finishes, simply drain it, toss in a little butter (to lubricate it),
toss it, and set it aside in a caserole dish or dishes.


Grate all the cheese.


Chop the garlic.  Saute the garlic in butter, set aside.


Put one of the sour cream containers in a saucepan, over the lowest
heat possible.  Once it warms up, slowly begin adding the grated
cheese.  Keep it moving in the pan to keep it from burning to the bottom
of the pan.  As it thickens up, add the second tub of sour cream.  When
all the cheese is melted, pour it over the macaroni.


Toast 2 slices of bread.  Fit them into the handy chopper and chop
'em to make 1C of bread crumbs, and spread over about half the mac and
cheese.  If you're doing all bread crumbs, use 4 pieces.


Place caseroles in the oven and broil for 10 minutes or until the top
is just beginning to brown.


---


Notes, 12/26/06:


Above recipe was written 12/25/05.


I've updated the garlic to "6 cloves".  We might've used a little more,
but that was perfect.  I put all the above-breadcrumbs on the little
casserole (by mistake) and it was too much.  I think probably half the
above amount, and just put it on one casserole.


The above-described sour cream:cheese ratio was a bit large.  Also,
I think the pasta:sauce ratio was small.  Next year I'm thinking only
one package of sour cream, and 32oz of pasta.


Also, it took more like 35 minutes at 350 to brown it.




---


Notes, 12/25/07:


The '06 notes are all spot on - did 16oz of sour cream, and 2 pieces
of toast for breadcrumbs.  Big change this year was broiler browning -
took less than 10 minutes in the oven.


Next year, should half the recipe if we only get the Sohns for
dinner.  Used exactly 2 lbs of cheese and 2lbs of macaroni, which was the
exact right mixture.  Probably could've used more garlic. Also, saved a
pan by browning the garlic in the bottom of the saucepan before beginning.


I've updated the above recipe to these notes; it is probably "final".
