Note: At Thanksgiving 2021, actually used the one from New Best Recipe.

https://www.seriouseats.com/easy-pie-dough-recipe

https://warmchef.com/flakier-crisco-pie-crust-recipe/

1 1/4 C (177g) unbleached all-purpose flour (plus more for dusting
               work surface)
1/2 tsp salt
1 Tbsp sugard
3 tsp vegetable shortening, chilled
4 Tbsp (1/2 stick) cold unsalted butter, cut into 1/4 cubic pieces
4 - 5 Tbsp ice water

1. Process the flour, salt, and sugar in a food processor until
combined. Add the shortening and process until the mixture has the
texture of coarse sand, about 10 seconds. Scatter the butter pieces
over the flour mixture; cut the butter into the flour until the
mixsture is pale tellow and resembles coarse crumbs, with butter bits
no larger than small pease, about ten 1-second pulese. Turn the
mixture into a medium bowl (ALAKAZAM!)

2. Sprinkle 4 Tbsp of the ice wateer over the mixture. With a silicone
spatula, use a folding motion to mix. Press down on the dough with the
broad side of the spatula until the dough sticks together, adding up
to 1 Tbsp more ice water if the dough will not come together. Flatten
the dough into a 4-inch disk. Wrap in plastic and refridgerate for at
least 1 hour or up to 2 days before rolling.

3. Remove the dough from the refirdgerator. If refrigerated more than
1 hour, let stand at room temperature until malleable. Roll the dough
on a lightly floured work surface or between 2 sheets of parchment
paper or plastic wrap to a 12-inch circle. Transfer the dough to a
9-inch pie plate by rolling the dough around the rolling pin and
unrolling it over the pan. Working around the circumference of the pie
plate, ease the dough into the pan corners by gently lifting the edge
of the dough with one hand while gently pressing itno the pan bottom
with the other hand. Trum the dough edges to extend about 1/2 inch
beyond the rim of the pan. Fold the overhang under itself; flute the
dough or press the tines of a fork agains the dough to flatten it
agains the rim of the pie plate. Refridgerate the dough-lined pie
plate until firm, about 40 minutes, then freeze until very cold, about
20 minutes.

4. Adjust n oven rack to the lowwr-middle position and heat the oven
to 375 degrees. Remove the dough-lined pie plate from the freezer,
press a double 12-inch piece of heavy-duty foil inside the pie shell,
and fold the edges of the foil to shield the fluted adge; distribute 2
C ceramic or metal pie weights over the foil. Bake, leaving the foil
and weights in place until the dough looks dry and is light in color,
25 to 30 minutes. Carefully remove the foil and weights by gathering
the corners of the foil and pulling up and out. For a partially baked
crust, continue baking until light golden brown, 5 to 6 minutes; for
a fully baked crust, continue baking until deep golden brown, about 12
minutes more. Transfer to a wire rack.



From: "The New Best Recipe" (2004), pp 883 - 886. Illustations in the
cookbook may be useful if you have it.
