Pizza:
Toppings
1 lbs shredded cheese
Skillet marinara sauce with 2 Tbsp extra sugar and 5 minutes extra
cook time

Pizza Dough:
420g all-purpose flour
85g (1/2 cup) yellow cornmeal
7 grams yeast
10g (2 tsp) granulated white sugar
10g (1 1/2 tsp) salt
295g warm water
3 tablespoons unsalted butter (melted and cooled slightly, for dough)
4 tablespoons unsalted butter (at room temperature, for dough later)
3 tablespoons unsalted butter (greasing skillet)

1. Melt 3 Tbsp unsalted butter in a 12 inch cast iron skillet.

2. Remove 4 Tbsp unsalted butter from refrigerator and set aside.

3. In a mixing bowl, measure warm water and yeast. Allow a few minutes
to awaken the yeast.

4. Add the flour, cornmeal, sugar, salt, and melted butter to the
mixing bowl.

5. Mix on low speed with a dough hook for 1 - 2 minutes until the
dough comes together. Then, increase speed to medium and knead for 4-5
minutes, until dough ball is smooth and shiny and pulls away from the
sides of the bowl. If the ball does not pull away from the sides, add
flour 25g at a time until it does.

6. Coat the sides and bottom of the dough tub (or bowl you can cover)
with olive oil, and your hands as well. Transfer dough to tub and let
rest at room temperature until nearly doubled in size, about 1 hour.

7. Make skillet marinara sauce with 2 Tbsp extra sugar and cooking it
for five extra minutes. (This step can wait until later depending on
timing but obviously has to be completed before 12 and takes about
half an hour end-to-end).

8. Turn the dough out onto a clean countertop. Roll the dough into a
15 by 12-inch rectangle. Using an off-set spatula, spread the softened
butter over the dough leaving a 1/2-inch border along the
edges. Starting at the short end, tightly roll the dough into a
cyclinder. With the seam-side down, flatten the dough into a 18 by
4-inch rectangle. Fold the dough into thirds like a business
letter. Pinch the seams together to form a ball. Plate, and cover
tightly with plastic wrap and let rise in the refrigerator until
nearly double in size, 45 to 50 minutes. You can hold this step for
longer if desired / needed.

9. Pre-heat the oven to 425 degrees.

10. Melt remaining 3 Tbsp butter in the cast iron skillet.

11. Roll the dough ball into a 15-inch round disk about 1/4 inch
thick. Place it in the cast iron skillet, working it into the corners
and up the sides.

12. Top with, in order, 3/4 pound of shredded cheese, toppings, and
marinara sauce.

13. Bake until the crust is golden brown, 20 to 30 minutes. Remove
from the oven and let cool for 10 minutes before serving.




Inspired by https://www.recipegirl.com/chicago-style-deep-dish-pizza-recipe/
