3 lbs blade roast
1/4 C all purpose flour
1/4 tsp MSG
1/2 tsp salt
2 C beef broth
2 Tbsp tomato paste
2 Tbsp Worcestershire sauce
2 lbs small Yukon gold potatoes
3 large carrots, cut into 3-inch pieces
2 celery ribs, cut into 3-inch pieces
1 medium sweet onion, cut into 1-inch wedges
8 cloves garlic, crushed
4 sprigs fresh thyme
1 bay leaf

Place the broth, tomato paste and Worcestershire sauce in the slow
cooker. Whisk in the flour, MSG, and salt. Add all the other non-beef
ingredients.

If you're feeling not-lazy, brown the roast for three minutes per side
over high heat in a little neutral oil.

Place the roast on top of everything else in the slow coooker, 

Cook on low for 7 - 8 hours (or high for 5, but low is preferred).

Remove the roast and large vegetables. Discard thyme sprigs, bay leaf,
and any big chunks of garlic. Pass the sauce through a sieve to filter
any big pieces out, then simmer for 5 - 10 minutes on the stovetop to
thicken the sauce.

Serve immediately.

Somewhat inspired by https://damndelicious.net/2019/04/12/slow-cooker-pot-roast/



---

Old and busted: (as of 20200523, hello from quarrantine)

1 Tbsp olive oil
1 (3 - 5 pound) boneless chuck roast (cross-rib is also nice), trimmed
1/2 teaspoon kosher salt
1/4 teaspoon freshly ground black pepper
2 coarsely chopped onions
2 cups dry red wine
4 thyme sprigs
8 garlic cloves, chopped (or pressed or smashed)
2 cups low-sodium beef broth or bone broth
1 bay leaf

4 large carrots, peeled and cut into 1/2-inch pieces (this step should
be done after the roast is in the oven)
20 small potatoes, washed (ditto)
2 lbs whole mushrooms (optional), washed (ditto ditto)
2 Tbsp flour

Pre-heat an oven to 350F

Coat the roast in olive oil, and sear with a blowtorch (or, optionally,
brown on all sides in a dutch oven)

Add to a dutch oven the roast, salt, pepper, onions, wine, thyme, garlic,
broth and bay leaf. Bring to a simmer on a stovetop, cover, and place
in the oven for 1 1/2 hours.

Remove the dutch oven, and add the carrots and potatoes. Cover and return
to oven for 1 hour.

Remove the dutch oven from the oven. Remove everything from the oven
except the liquid, discarding the thyme stems. Set vegetables and meat
aside, covered under foil.

Pour the liquid through a sieve into a gravy separator, and let stand
five minutes to allow the fat to rise. While this happens, rinse out
the dutch oven with just water to remove anything big remaining in it.

Separate the fat and the liquid. Pour the fat into the dutch oven, and
heat over medium heat until hot. Add the flour to the dutch oven, and
whisk to combine. Let cook for 1 minute, then slowly add the reserved
liquid, whisking as you add in order to prevent lumps.

Raise heat to high. If desired, add the mushrooms. Boil for 10
minutes. Remove the mushrooms from the sauce, and serve.







Inspired by:  http://www.myrecipes.com/recipe/classic-beef-pot-roast
