20191202: Smoked a lot again, even though I put in 1 1/2C braising
liquid and 3C of water in the initial high heat. This year's turkey I
think was smaller, and was a little drier. Next year drop the temp to
425F initially for real, and stop the roast at 30 minutes. We hit the
initial temperature within four hours, and I had to bounce it up and
down between 140 and 149. Hopefully if we drop it a bit at the start,
it'll rise more slowly.


Thoughts after making: I updated the recipe with many of the lessons
learned, but want to note I didn't do anything at all with the juices in
the roasting pan because I'd only used 1C deglazing liquid in the bottom
of the pan, and it ran out while the turkey was still early in its roast
(I also ran the oven at 450 convection), so things burned pretty badly
there. The Jus seemed to turn out just fine (though forgot the soy sauce
and had to put in a couple of pinches of salt at the end). So still see
what you can do with the drippings next year but I have no direct advice
for you (me). Both years the turkey smoked really dramatically, so I'd
like to drop it to 425 in 2020.

Turkey: 1 turkey, not frozen, about 12 lbs
2 Tbsp salt
1 tsp ground black pepper
1 celery stalk, cut into 2 or 3 pieces
1 medium carrot, peeled and cut into 2 or 3 pieces
1 large onion, peeled and quartered
2 branches sage
2 branches thyme

1 1/2C Deglazing liquid (good white wine, or apple cider, or...the
       first time I made this (Thanksgiving, 2018), I used Veuve
       Cliquot and it was amazing)
3C Water

Jus
1 Tbsp oil
Neck, giblets and wing tips from one turkey (don't use the liver)
1 tsp salt
Ground pepper
1 1/2 C de-glazing liquid from above
4 C chicken broth
A few sage leaves
2 sprigs fresh thyme
1 clove of garlic, smashed and peeled
1 tsp soy sauce
1 onion worth of mirepoix

End-to-end this recipe takes twenty-four or more hours.

Set oven to convection roast at 420 degrees F

Remove and discard the gizzards. Cut off the wing tips with poultry
shears. Remove the neck. Reserve them for the jus.

Sprinkle half the salt into the cavity, and rub the other half over
the bird.

Chop the celery and carrots into large pieces, and peel and halve the
onion. Push them inside the cavity, with the herbs.

Add 1 1/2 C de-glazing liquid and 3 C water to the bottom of the
pan. Roast the turkey for 1 hour at 425 degrees F. Then, without
removing the bird, drop the oven temperature to non-convection bake at
170 degrees F, and roast it at least one hour per pound. It will not
overcook or cause problems to hold it for up to 72 hours. The internal
temperature goal is probably around 145F but it may be difficult to
keep it under 155F; anything over 140F for at least a couple of hours
is fine.

You may make the stock for jus immediately and refrigerate it for
reheating the next day, or set the components in the fridge and make
it 1 1/2 - 2 1/2 hours before before you serve the turkey. To make the
stock:

Turn a burner to medium high. Add oil when pan is hot, add the neck,
other turkey parts and mirepoix. Allow everything to brown, stirring
now and again to prevent scorching, about 10 minutes.

Add 1 cup of the de-glazing liquid and scrape up the browned bits
on the bottom of the pan. Add chicken broth, garlic, herbs and soy
sauce. Stir and bring to a boil, then immediately turn down the heat to
a simmer. Partly cover and let simmer gently for at least an hour and
no more than two. Strain the stock and set aside. You should have about
3 cups.

When the turkey is done, remove it to a platter or cutting board and tent
with foil. Set the roasting pan across two burners. Over medium-high
heat, get the juices bubbling hot and then add the remaining 1/2C of
de-glazing liquid, scraping up the bits that stuck to the pan. Let
cook for another for another two minutes until some of the liquid has
evaporated. Add the stock from step 8 and cook, stirring occasionally,
for another 5 or 6 minutes, until it has reduced slightly. Taste and
adjust for seasoning. Strain to remove any remaining solids, put back
into a pot and keep hot.

Won't this leave fat sitting on top? Perhaps skim fat first and bind
with flour, or add some xantham gum and stick-blend the final product
to bind it?

Serve!










Inspirations:
https://cooking.nytimes.com/recipes/1019738-pulled-turkey-with-jus?action=click&module=RelatedLinks&pgtype=Article&login=email

https://www.splendidtable.org/story/this-year-roast-the-turkey-while-you-sleep
