90 m l or 6 Tbspns extra-virgin olive oil, divided into 60 and 30 ml
                   portions
4 medium garlic cloves, thinly sliced or finely chopped
8 anchovy filets, finely chopped
Large pinch red pepper flakes
60g or 1/4C capers, drained
100g Kalamata or black olives, pitted and cut in half
225g or 1C whole peeled tomatoes, preferrably San Marzano, roughly
           broken up by hand
Kosher salt
225g dried spagetti
1 Tbsp fresh oregano, coarsley chopped
30g finely grated Parmesan cheese, plus more for serving
1/4 tsp freshly ground black pepper

In a 12-inch pan or pot, raise just enough water to cover the
spaghetti, plus an inch to a simmer. Add in several generous pinches
of salt. It does not yet need to be at a roiling boil, but it should
be close to it when it comes time to add the spaghetti.

In a medium skillet, combine 4 tablespoons (60ml) oil, garlic,
anchovies, and red pepper flakes. Cook over medium heat until garlic
is very lightly golden, about 5 minutes. (Adjust heat as necessary to
keep it gently sizzling.) Add capers and olives and stir to combine.

Add tomatoes, stir to combine, and bring to a bare simmer. Remove from
heat.

Bring the water to a roiling boil, and add the spaghetti for 2 - 3
minutes shy of the instructed cooking time for al dente pasta. Remove
it from the water with a pair of tongs, leaving the water in the pot
or pan. Place the spaghetti directly into the pan with the sauce.

Add a few tablespoons of pasta water to sauce and set over medium-high
heat to bring pasta and sauce to a vigorous simmer. Cook, stirring and
shaking the pan and adding more pasta water as necessary to keep sauce
loose, until pasta is perfectly al dente, 1 to 2 minutes longer. (The
pasta will cook more slowly in the sauce than it did in the water.)
Remove from heat and stir in remaining olive oil, oregano, and
cheese. Season with salt and pepper (be generous with the pepper and
scant with the salt—the dish will be plenty salty from the other
ingredients). Serve immediately with more grated cheese at the table.


Simplified from
https://www.seriouseats.com/spaghetti-puttanesca-pasta-week-capers-olives-anchovies-recipe



