20110925:

After trying below it was OK, but sake should be cut to 1 C (from
2). Also, don't forget the brown sugar!

New instructions, and bumped cornstarch to 3 Tbsp from 2 since I have
some memory it was too little.

1. Mince the garlic, ginger and onion.
2. Cut the pineapple half into bite-sized chunks. Save the core and
   bits near the skin.
3. Cut up the green pepper, squash and pork into bite-sized chunks.
4. Juice the extra pineapple bits to make about 1/4 cup of pineapple
   juice, and similarly juice the lemon.
5. Mix together the two juices, the cornstarch, the vinegar, the soy
sauce, sake and brown sugar, and toss pineapple in this mixture.
6. Put some stir-fry oil in the wok, and toss in the ginger and half
   the garlic when it's hot, and let it brown a litte. Then, add the
   pork and about 1 Tbsp of soy sauce. Cook until the pork is done,
   then turn off the heat and remove the pork.
7. Add some more stir-fry oil and put in the squash, pepper and
   onions.  Stir-fry for two minutes.
9. Add the pineapple and sauce, and re-cover, cook for six more
   minutes.
10. Toss with the pork, and it's ready.

20070714:
1 pound of pork tenderloin (one loin thing)
1 half fresh pineapple 1 small fresh ginger root
7 cloves garlic, minced
1 lemon
1 green pepper
2 small (or 1 large) yellow squash
3 Tbsp cornstarch
2 Tbsp rice vinegar
3 Tbsp low-sodium soy sauce
3 Tbsp brown sugar
1/2 onion
2 C Sake

1. Mince the garlic, ginger and onion.
2. Cut the pineapple half into bite-sized chunks.  Save the core and
   bits near the skin.
3. Cut up the green pepper, squash and pork into bite-sized chunks.
4. Juice the extra pineapple bits to make about 1/4 cup of pineapple
   juice, and similarly juice the lemon.
5. Mix together the two juices, the cornstarch, the vinegar, the soy
   sauce and sugar, and set aside (whisk vigorously).
6. Put some stir-fry oil in the wok, and toss in half the ginger and
   half the garlic when it's hot, and let it brown a litte. Then, add
   the pork and about 1 Tbsp of soy sauce. Cook until the pork is
   done, then turn off the heat and remove the pork.
7. Add some more stir-fry oil, and the remaining ginger and garlic
   when the oil is hot. Brown a little as before, then put in the
   squash, pepper and onions. Stir-fry for two minutes.
8. Add the sake, and cover for two minutes.
9. Add the pineapple, and re-cover, cook for four more minutes.
10. Turn off heat, and remove vegetables (put them in the same bowl as the pork,
    though this isn't important). Try to leave as much of the fluid as
    possible in the wok.
11. Re-whisk the sauce mixture from step 5 to pick up as much
    cornstarch as possible. Add this mixture to the fluid in the
    bottom of the wok, and turn on medium heat.
12. Stir continuously until the mixture becomes a sauce. Then, toss
    with the vegetables and the pork, and serve.




