


20171022:


Don’t put jalapeños in it for Meg


20100424:


Cut the below fish sauce and sugar in half, to 1 Tbsp each.  Blake
won't eat green pepper.


20090301:


Been making this pretty regularly.


Here's the current recipe:


8 cloves garlic 1 medium onion, chopped 1 chopped green (or orange or
whatever) pepper 1 chopped jalepeño (seeds in) 1 bunch fresh basil,
chopped 1 Tbsp fish sauce 1 Tbsp sugar 1 lbs 93% lean ground beef; or,
1 lbs steak (or chicken), cut into bite-sized pieces 2 Tbsp stir-fry oil


Heat the wok to smoking (or skillet on medium-high heat); add stir fry
oil.  


Add the peppers, jalepños, and onions. If using bite-sized meat, add
this as well, and stir-fry until done, about four minutes for steak and
six - eight for chicken.


If cooking with ground beef, add it after about two minutes, break it up,
and cook until it is done (about five minutes).


Add garlic, and cook until fragrant, about 30 seconds.


Add the basil, the sugar, and the fish sauce, toss until the basil is
wilted (about 30 seconds) and serve immediately.


20070325:


Below recipe has too much fish sauce - try 1/8th


Do not, under any circumstances, add soy sauce, it's salty enough.


I used a good bowl-full of sweet basil (one pack, about half a dozen
stems) and it still wasn't enough.


I did about 1 tbsp of sugar and couldn't notice it.


The single jalepeno didn't really do much for heat.  Try two, next time.


--


Unfortunately, first time I made this, I didn't keep notes.


Basis of this try is:



http://www.panix.com/~clay/cookbook/bin/show_recipe.cgi?thai+recipe143


8 cloves garlic 1 cup chopped (or pureed for the kids) onions 1 chopped
green (or orange or whatever) pepper 1 chopped jalepeno 1 cup chopped
fresh basil 1/4 cup fish sauce 2 tbsp sugar 1 pound ground beef


Start some rice!


Brown the beef, drain and remove.


Kid-friendly: Put some garlic and the chopped jalepeno in some oil
and sweat.  Remove and set aside.  If not doing kid-friendly, just add
with the green peppers.


Put oil in wok, and add garlic, onion, green peppers, basil, fish suace
and sugar.  Cook until the green peppers are soft. Turn off heat,
and toss the ground beef with these ingredients.


