














Democracy Dies in Darkness








 Sections 













Subscribe



Username


Sign In




Account

Profile

Newsletters & Alerts

Gift Subscriptions

Contact Us

Help Desk




Subscribe




Account

Profile

Newsletters & Alerts

Gift Subscriptions

Contact Us

Help Desk



 Subscribe 









Accessibility for screenreader

Home Page

 U.S. & World 
|
 Regional 

Politics





PowerPost

The Fix

White House

Courts and Law

Polling

Monkey Cage

Fact Checker

Post Politics Blog

Opinions





The Post's View

Toles Cartoons

Telnaes Animations

Local Opinions

Global Opinions

Letters to the Editor

Act Four

All Opinions Are Local

Book Party

Compost

Erik Wemple

Five Myths

In Theory

The Plum Line

PostEverything

PostPartisan

Rampage

Right Turn

The Watch

Volokh Conspiracy

DemocracyPost

Sports





Redskins

NFL

MLB

NBA

NHL

AllMetSports

Soccer

Boxing/MMA

College Sports

College Football

College Basketball

D.C. Sports Bog

Early Lead

Fancy Stats

Golf

Tennis

Fantasy Sports

Local





D.C.

Maryland

Virginia

Public Safety

Education

Obituaries

Transportation

Weather

Retropolis

National





Acts of Faith

Health and Science

National Security

Investigations

Morning Mix

Post Nation

True Crime

Obituaries

World





Africa

The Americas

Asia and Pacific

Europe

Middle East

National Security

WorldViews

Checkpoint

Business





Wonkblog

On Leadership

Personal Finance

Digger

Energy and Environment

Markets

On Small Business

World Business

Capital Business

Tech





Innovations

The Switch

Lifestyle





Arts and Entertainment

Advice

Carolyn Hax

Food

Travel

Wellness

Magazine

Home and Garden

Inspired Life

Fashion

KidsPost

On Parenting

Reliable Source

The Intersect

Solo-ish

Entertainment





Books

Comics

Comic Riffs

Going Out Guide

Horoscopes

Movies

Museums

Music

Puzzles and Games

Theater and Dance

TV

Restaurants

Bars & Clubs

Crosswords

Video





World

Top News

Entertainment

Local

Popular Video

Politics

Live

Sports

Opinions

National

Business

Technology

Style

Newsletters & Alerts

Podcasts





Cape Up

Can He Do That?

Presidential

Sports

Photography





In Sight

Washington Post Live

Live Chats

Real Estate





Rentals

Where We Live

Recently Sold Homes

Cars

Jobs

Classifieds

Partners





Express

Parade

WP BrandStudio


washingtonpost.com

 1996-2017 The Washington Post 

Terms of Service

Privacy Policy

Submissions and Discussion Policy

RSS Terms of Service

Ad Choices




 








Share on Facebook




Share on Twitter




Share on Google Plus




Share via Email




Share on LinkedIn




Share on Pinterest




Share on Tumblr



 




Resize Text




Print Article




Comments


58











2
 


 

Desktop notifications are on   | 
Turn off


Get breaking news alerts from 
 The Washington Post 

Turn on desktop notifications?

Yes
Not now

It looks like you've previously blocked notifications. Please update your browser permissions to allow them.









  



   







Food
How to make the best doughnuts you’ll ever eat







 The inside track on Washington politics. 

 Be the first to know about new 
 









Sign up 
*Invalid email address

Got it

Got it















By 
Kristen Hartke

By 
Kristen Hartke

Food
May 23










Play Video
2:12



Vanilla-glazed brioche doughnuts



Embed




Copy


Share





















We believe you can fry – beautiful yeasted doughnuts. You’ll need a kitchen scale and instant-read thermometer for this recipe.

We believe you can fry – beautiful yeasted doughnuts. You'll need a kitchen scale and instant-read thermometer for this recipe. (Ashleigh Joplin,Bonnie Benwick/The Washington Post)
It’s easy to wax poetic about doughnuts. Whether they’re light as air and melt in your mouth or caky and sugarcoated, ready to dunk, who can pass up a fresh one? The best are made by hand with wholesome ingredients. Even the ones that start with a mix — and those include your Krispy Kremes and Dunkin’ Donuts — still taste pretty good, to be honest. It’s fried dough.
For me, the perfect yeasted doughnut has been freshly fried, its brioche crumb offering the gentlest chew. It is completely coated with a glaze that is just set, and flecked with vanilla bean. The problem is getting to the bakery at exactly the right moment to snag it. So, here’s the plan: DIY doughnuts.
As Tiffany MacIsaac, chef-owner of Buttercream Bakeshop in Shaw, says of tackling DIY doughnuts, “If a freshly fried, hot doughnut isn’t something you consider a bonus, I don’t even know what to say.”
All right then. Let’s make doughnuts. We think we’ve cracked the code to make it achievable for home cooks.




Vanilla-Glazed Brioche Doughnuts and holes, glazed and ready to eat. (Photo by Goran Kosanovic for The Washington Post)
>> 

Jump ahead to the recipe
A yeasted or raised doughnut requires a properly rested dough, hot oil and patience. The dough itself needs enough fat, typically from eggs and butter, to help it expand in the hot oil, while the oil has to be hot enough — but not too hot — to achieve that golden-brown exterior. Patience is the glue that holds it all together, letting the dough properly rise to ensure the best texture and allowing the oil to heat up or cool down to the right temperature.


 [
Here’s the amazingly simple path to incredible homemade bagels
Even though making the dough is obviously the place to start, getting over the Fear/Hassle of Frying is often the first hurdle. Luckily, the executive pastry chef for the Neighborhood Restaurant Group has a plan for that.
“Clear everything off the counter before you start frying,” says Naomi Gallego. “Dale Earnhardt doesn’t have stuff on his dashboard.”
Being accustomed to working in a professional kitchen, Gallego knows that preparation is key. When she recommends having a fire extinguisher handy, it is because she likes to avoid potential problems. Bottom line: Don’t be afraid to fry doughnuts. It’s less trouble than frying chicken, and it doesn’t require a vat of oil or even an electric fryer. A couple of quarts of canola in a pot you have on hand — a wok works particularly well — and a thermometer is all that’s standing between you and doughnut heaven.

First, make the dough.

The dough itself, based on a classic brioche recipe of mostly flour, eggs and butter, will come together in just 30 minutes — and that includes 15 minutes for the yeast to proof in warm milk. Your first brush with patience, and a twinge of concern, will come in this step, as the butter is added in three parts to the flour, yeast, vanilla bean scrapings and eggs already in the bowl of a sturdy stand mixer. The mixture will seem too wet, almost like a cake batter. Do not lose heart. Let the machine, fitted with a dough hook, do its magic.

“When that dough comes together, it’s a thing of beauty,” Gallego says.



(Photo by Goran Kosanovic for The Washington Post)

Next, proof, or ferment, the dough.
Fermenting a yeasted dough requires little supervision. The just-mixed dough rests for about 30 minutes in an oiled bowl at room temperature — covered with greased plastic wrap to keep a skin from forming — and refrigerated overnight, up to 15 hours. That slow, chilled fermentation is crucial to the process for doughnuts that will puff up and have an evenly tender interior.


The next morning, allow the chilled dough to rest
The final proof can, alas, take an hour or two — and that’s sad only because you’re so close to having fresh doughnuts, you can almost taste them. Your commitment to patience will pay off because a properly proofed doughnut — it should hold a slight indentation when gently pressed and just about double its height — yields a light result when fried. So get up early, cut the doughnuts and then go have some coffee and check your news feed.

Fry, fry away. 

Let the doughnuts rise on individual squares of greased parchment paper. Once it’s time to fry, you can slide both the doughnut and its parchment into the hot oil, and then remove the paper with tongs. That way the doughnut will hold its shape; otherwise, trying to move it with a spatula might deflate it before it hits the oil.
A wok works well because its wide expanse gives the frying doughnuts room to expand, yet its belly is shallow enough for doughnuts to slip in and be easily retrieved.
You’ll need a thermometer — preferably one that clips to the side of the pot — so that you can keep an eye on the oil temperature.
While Gallego typically fries doughnuts at 350 degrees, ­MacIsaac prefers to heat her oil to a maximum of 340, which will drop about 10 degrees after she adds a batch of doughnuts; this keeps her frying oil temperature in the 320- to 330-degree range. She also suggests turning the burner on and off as needed to modulate the oil while frying. For the home cook who might be frying two or three doughnuts at a time, it’s better to err on the side of keeping the oil slightly cooler, about 330 degrees. We found in testing this made the frying less scary — no hot spatters.
Flip, and flip. Repeat. Fry for a few seconds on one side (once the paper has floated free), then gently turn the doughnuts over. Gallego likes to use a small wire skimmer and distribute four turns over a total of four minutes. (In testing, we found gas and induction burners required different timing and turns; see the annotated recipe, below.) Transfer the doughnuts to a wire rack set in a rimmed baking sheet to cool for a bit.

 [
Breakfast was the most important meal of the day — until America ruined it

Time to glaze. 

The last bit of patience requires you to wait till the glaze has set, which can take up to an hour. This may become too torturous, however, so eat at will.

And then there’s the midriff.
As they fry, the doughnuts will, or won’t, develop a narrow white band that runs around the circumference; it’s the “midriff” to Gallego and a “bikini line” for MacIsaac. Whichever part of the anatomy it recalls, for pastry chefs, that delineation signals the true sweet spot in proofing perfection — a doughnut that went into the oil at exactly the right moment. MacIsaac suggests putting the proofed doughnuts in the refrigerator to chill for 10 minutes before frying, as a way to help them hold their shape and possibly yield that perfect midriff when they hit the oil.
“The sexiest thing is that doughnut midriff,” Gallego says with a happy sigh.
Although the midriff is a worthy aspiration, it absolutely won’t make or break the flavor of the doughnut as long as everything else has gone right.
“The goal is to strive for perfection,” MacIsaac says. “But don’t let perfection be the enemy of just getting in the kitchen and cooking. I’ve never had a freshly fried doughnut I didn’t love.”
Neither have we.




Texture is everything, and this doughnut has just the right chew to it. (Photo by Goran Kosanovic for The Washington Post)


Vanilla-Glazed Brioche Doughnuts

Makes 24 doughnuts, plus holes

Click the highlighted text for additional background information and .gifs.


A kitchen scale makes the dough easier to put together. You’ll need a 3-inch doughnut cutter and a small cutter for the center holes; we found in testing that you’ll have fewer scraps to reroll when you use a square cutter or a sharp knife and a ruler to measure 3-inch squares. You’ll also need an instant-read thermometer.
You’ll probably freeze half the dough and fry a batch of 12 doughnuts plus holes; the remaining dough can be kept in a freezer-safe zip-top bag with as much air pressed out of it as possible, for up to 2 months. The glaze can be refrigerated for up to several weeks; bring to room temperature and stir or beat to make smooth again before using.
Scraps or the rest of the brioche dough can be given a savory treatment; see the VARIATIONS, below.


MAKE AHEAD: 

Ingredients

For the doughnuts
227 grams whole milk (1 cup)
21 grams (2 tablespoons plus 1 teaspoon) dried yeast, preferably SAF brand
21 grams warm water (105 degrees; 2 tablespoons plus 1/2 teaspoon)
750 grams flour (5 1/2 cups plus 2 1/2 tablespoons), plus more for rolling
113 grams granulated sugar (1/2 cup)
14 grams kosher salt (2 1/2 teaspoons)
Scrapings of 1 vanilla bean (may substitute 1 1/2 teaspoons vanilla bean paste)
3 large eggs plus 5 large egg yolks (about 240 grams total)
285 grams unsalted butter (20 1/2 tablespoons), at room temperature
2 quarts vegetable oil, for frying

For the glaze
About 5 cups confectioners’ sugar
1/2 to 3/4 cup hot tap water
Generous 1/2 cup vanilla extract
2 teaspoons kosher salt
Scrapings of 1 vanilla bean

Steps

For the doughnuts: Warm the milk in a small saucepan over low heat, to 105 degrees. Remove from the heat. 
Sprinkle the yeast over the milk


Combine the flour, granulated sugar and salt in the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with a paddle attachment. Add the yeast mixture, vanilla bean, eggs and egg yolks; beat on medium-low speed to form a shaggy mass with no visible dry ingredients.
Add the butter in three additions, waiting until each one is well blended before adding the next. Beat until the dough looks somewhat smooth.
Switch to a dough-hook attachment. Beat/knead on medium-low speed for 10 minutes; the dough should look smoother still, and most of it will gather around the dough hook. To see whether gluten has developed, take a golf ball-size piece of dough and 
stretch it gently between your thumbs and first two fingers on both hands


Grease a large bowl with cooking oil spray; scrape the dough into the bowl and 
cover with greased plastic wrap directly on the surface


Uncover and transfer the dough to a floured work surface. If you wish to make just one batch, divide the dough in half (best to weigh it) and place the rest in a freezer-safe gallon-size zip-top bag, sealing it as you press out any air. Freeze for up to 2 months.
Flour the rolling pin. 
Press down the dough on the work surface and roll into a rectangle


Meanwhile, cut thirteen or fourteen 4-inch square pieces of parchment paper, then grease their tops lightly with cooking oil spray and arrange them on two baking sheets.
Use the 3-inch cutter or knife and ruler to 
cut 9 doughnuts, as close together as possible


Cover with greased plastic wrap and let rise for at least 1 hour and up to 3 hours, in a draft-free spot; the doughnuts should almost double in height. (If the doughnuts rise in a turned-off oven that had been preheated to 170 degrees, they will rise faster.)
Meanwhile, make the glaze: Combine the confectioners’ sugar, 1/2 cup of the hot water, the vanilla extract, salt and vanilla bean scrapings in the bowl of a stand mixer or handheld mixer; beat on medium speed until smooth, adding some or all of the remaining hot water, as needed, to form a thick glaze. Cover with plastic wrap until ready to use.
Heat the oil in a wok over medium to medium-low heat (325 degrees).
Working with two or three at a time, 
slide the doughnuts on their papers into the hot oil


Monitor the oil temperature and adjust the heat, as needed.
Use a Chinese skimmer to transfer the doughnuts to a wire rack set over paper towels to cool for 5 or 10 minutes. When you’re done with half of them, 
toss them one at a time into the bowl of glaze, turning to coat all over


Repeat to fry the remaining doughnuts and holes; glaze the rest of the batch the same way.




Two savory variations: Herbed olive oil monkey bread (left) and BBQ brioche monkey bread. (Photos by Goran Kosanovic for The Washington Post)

SAVORY VARIATIONS:
Pinch scraps or extra dough into walnut-size balls; dunk them in a mixture of extra-virgin olive oil and fresh chopped herbs (such as rosemary and thyme), then pack them loosely together in a greased baking dish — like monkey bread. Drizzle more of the herbed olive oil on top and sprinkle with Parm. Let them proof/rise for 20 to 30 minutes, then bake at 350 degrees for about 45 minutes; they’re done when a tester inserted into the center comes out clean. Serve warm.
Instead of coating the individual balls of dough in an herbed olive oil, bake them plain in a greased baking dish at 350 degrees for 25 minutes, then brush liberally with your favorite barbecue sauce. Continue to bake for another 20 minutes, until browned and cooked through (use the same tester method for doneness). Serve warm, with more barbecue sauce for dipping.

From a recipe by Neighborhood Restaurant Group executive pastry chef Naomi Gallego.

Tested by Kristen Hartke and Bonnie S. Benwick.

More from 
Food



lifestyle
food
food






true


Recipes newsletter
Weekly recipes and more from our Food team.


Please provide a valid email address. 
  
  

 Sign up 

 You’re all set! 

See all newsletters


 :: test



The story must be told.
Your subscription supports journalism that matters.

Try 1 month for 99¢

A step-by-step guide to the only chicken soup recipe you’ll ever need

This is the future of barbecue: No regions, no rules, lots of innovation

Why your humble bowl of oatmeal could help feed a growing planet

The no-frills, very British way to host an afternoon tea

View more recipes for sweets, savory dishes and much more in our Recipe Finder




   
















58

 Comments







Share on Facebook
Share




Share on Twitter
Tweet


Share via Email
















 

PAID PROMOTED STORIES






Use These 5 Tricks To Maximize Your BBQ Budget
Land O'Moms





10 Classic Baby Girl Names That Are Ready to Make a Comeback
Ancestry





The 10 Best Neighborhoods in America
AARP






How to 'Fix' Crepey Skin
Health Headlines





Don't Spend a Fortune on a Car: The 10 Most Affordable Vehicles of 2016
Kelley Blue Book





Thinking About Going Solar? Read This First
Energy Bill Cruncher


  		Recommended by


        



 








58

 Show Comments






Discussion Policy

 
 



SuperFan Badge
SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about Washington area sports and teams.

More about badges
Request a badge


Culture Connoisseur Badge
Culture Connoisseurs consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on the arts, lifestyle and entertainment.

More about badges
Request a badge


Fact Checker Badge
Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to 
The Fact Checker

More about badges
Request a badge


Washingtologist Badge
Washingtologists consistently post thought-provoking, timely comments on events, communities, and trends in the Washington area.

More about badges
Request a badge


Post Writer Badge
This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer.


Post Forum Badge
Post Forum members consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on politics, national and international affairs.

More about badges
Request a badge


Weather Watcher Badge
Weather Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on climates and forecasts.

More about badges
Request a badge


World Watcher Badge
World Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on international affairs.

More about badges
Request a badge


Post Contributor Badge
This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors aren’t staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are sources or experts quoted in a story.

More about badges
Request a badge


Post Recommended
Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post.

You must be logged in to report a comment.


Sign in here

You must be logged in to recommend a comment.


Sign in here

Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in 
Top Comments


All comments are posted in the 
All Comments


More about badges


Get a badge

To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused, you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.



Top Comments









Spam
Offensive
Disagree
Off-Topic


 Among the criteria for featured comments: likes by users, replies by users, previous history of valuable commenting, and selection by moderators. 




  


















 




1


 The Trumps take their first official trip, and the world gets its first real look at the Trump marriage 



2



 Perspective 



3


 ‘The Voice’ finale: The unusual way that winner Chris Blue made show history 



4



 Perspective 



5


 ‘It’s sexist’: Men flip out over women-only ‘Wonder Woman’ screenings 





The story must be told.
Subscribe to The Washington Post.

Subscribe











lifestyle
food
food




Weekly recipes and more from our Food team.

Success!


 Please enter a valid email address 

You might also like: 








Sign Up
No Thanks

See all newsletters

















washingtonpost.com
© 1996-2017 The Washington Post
 

Help and Contact Us

Terms of Service

Privacy Policy

Print Products Terms of Sale

Digital Products Terms of Sale

Submissions and Discussion Policy

RSS Terms of Service

Ad Choices












Close video player


Now Playing










Close video player


Now Playing

















  
 
  












×


×


×


×


test
test
test


