20090509:

These were good, but a bit chewy and dry. I think at least doubling
the oil (I used olive) is in order. Also, don't mix with a wisk :)

From
http://homesicktexan.blogspot.com/2007/03/and-end-to-my-quest-flour-tortillas.html

Texas Flour Tortillas (adapted from The Border Cookbook by Cheryl Alters
Jamison and Bill Jamison)

Ingredients:
2 C all-purpose flour (can make them whole wheat by
                       substituting 1 C of whole-wheat flour for
		       white flour)
1½ tsp of baking powder
1 tsp of salt
2 tsp of vegetable oil
¾ C of warm milk

Method:
Mix together the flour, baking powder, salt and oil.  Slowly add
the warm milk.  Stir until a loose, sticky ball is formed.  Knead for two
minutes on a floured surface. Dough should be firm and soft.  Place dough
in a bowl and cover with a damp cloth or plastic wrap for 20 minutes.
After the dough has rested, break off eight sections, roll them into balls
in your hands, place on a plate (make sure they aren’t touching) and
then cover balls with damp cloth or plastic wrap for 10 minutes. (It’s
very important to let the dough rest, otherwise it will be like elastic
and won’t roll out to a proper thickness and shape.)  After dough has
rested, one at a time place a dough ball on a floured surface, pat it
out into a four-inch circle, and then roll with a rolling pin from the
center until it’s thin and about eight inches in diameter. (If you
roll out pie crusts you’ll have no problem with this.) Don’t over
work the dough, or it’ll be stiff. Keep rolled-out tortillas covered
until ready to cook.  In a dry iron skillet or comal heated on high,
cook the tortilla about thirty seconds on each side. It should start to
puff a bit when it’s done.  Keep cooked tortillas covered wrapped in
a napkin until ready to eat.  Can be reheated in a dry iron skillet,
over your gas-burner flame or in the oven wrapped in foil.  While you
probably won’t have any leftovers, you can store in the fridge tightly
wrapped in foil or plastic for a day or so.  Makes eight tortillas.
