1¾ cups all-purpose flour
½ teaspoon ground cinnamon
1 teaspoon kosher salt
¾ teaspoon baking powder
¾ teaspoon baking soda
6 tablespoons demerara sugar
½ cup granulated sugar
2 teaspoons finely grated lemon zest
2 large eggs, at room temperature
½ cup olive oil, plus more for the pan
¼ cup plain Greek yogurt
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
14 oz. zucchini, unpeeled and grated on a box grater
  (about 2 small zucchini), thoroughly squeezed

Preheat oven to 350F.

Brush a thin layer of olive oil on the bottom and sides of a
not non-stick loaf pan. Cut a piece of parchment paper the width
of the loaf pan, long enough that it will sit above the walls of
the loaf pan when placed inside.

Grate 14 oz. unpeeled zucchini through a box grater over a folded
paper towel, then squeeze out as much moisture as possible from
the zucchini.

Whisk all-purpose flour, cinnamon, salt, baking powder, and
baking soda in a medium bowl.

Add demerara sugar, granulated sugar, and the zest of one lemon
to a larger bowl. Massage togther until the mixture looks like
wet sand. Take two tablespoons of this mixture and set aside.
Whisk the rest of the mixture together with the eggs until
incorporated.

Whisk vanilla extract and greek yogurt into the eggs until
incorporated, then add olive oil slowly while whisking constantly.

Mix zucchini with the dry ingredients, hand-tossing until there
are no clumps of the zucchini and the shreds are evenly coated.

Fold the zucchini and dry ingredients into the larger bowl,
mixing until there are no flour pockets.

Pour into the loaf pan and spread it to an even height.
Sprinkle the two tablespoons of lemon-sugar mixture over the
top of the loaf.

Bake in the center rack of a 350F oven until the top is domed
and cracked, and a toothpick comes out clean from the center.
40-50 minutes.

Finally let cool for an hour and cut around the edges to
separate from the pan, then lift out with the parchment paper.

Should keep fresh unrefrigerated for a week.

From: https://youtu.be/j4PvDh8h5iE?si=iVKy8bkyJ3rnyq69 Claire Saffitz' Easy Zucchini Bread
